.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.\"
.TH NYMEA-CLI 1 "May 2026" "nymea-cli 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nymea-cli \- fullscreen terminal client for nymead
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nymea-cli
[\fB\-H\fR \fIhost\fR]
[\fB\-s\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIport\fR]
[\fB\-t\fR \fImilliseconds\fR]
[\fB\-u\fR \fIusername\fR]
[\fB\-w\fR \fIpassword\fR]
[\fB\-\-help\fR]
[\fB\-\-version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nymea-cli
is a terminal-only Qt5/Qt6 + FTXUI client for
.BR nymead .
It connects to the nymea newline-delimited JSON-RPC interface over plain
TCP or SSL/TLS and presents a keyboard-driven fullscreen interface for
browsing things, inspecting metadata, configuring devices, exploring the
API model, and executing server-side actions.
.PP
At startup the client performs
.BR JSONRPC.Hello ,
shows the server name, server version, and API version in the header, and
then authenticates with a stored token or with username/password
credentials. Tokens are persisted per saved connection and reused across
restarts. If a stored token is rejected, it is cleared and authentication
is requested again.
.PP
The default nymea ports are 2223 for plain TCP and 2222 for SSL/TLS.
When TLS is enabled, the server certificate fingerprint is stored per
connection and a warning is shown if it changes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-host " " \fIhost\fR
Connect to the specified
.BR nymead
host. The default is
.BR 127.0.0.1 .
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-ssl
Use SSL/TLS via
.BR QSslSocket .
This changes the default port to 2222.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIport\fR
Connect to the specified TCP port. If omitted, the default is 2222 when
.B \-\-ssl
is set and 2223 otherwise.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout " " \fImilliseconds\fR
Set the timeout in milliseconds for connection and reply waits. The
default is
.BR 5000 .
The value must be greater than zero.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-username " " \fIusername\fR
Username to use for
.BR JSONRPC.Authenticate .
If authentication is required and a stored token is unavailable or
rejected, the client attempts automatic login with this value.
.TP
.BR \-w ", " \-\-password " " \fIpassword\fR
Password to use for
.BR JSONRPC.Authenticate .
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Show command line help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Show the program version and exit.
.SH INTERFACE
.SS Main Views
The main menu provides access to the things browser, thing configuration
flows, the API browser, settings, logout, and an about screen.
.PP
The things view contains a search field, a filtered thing list, and a
details pane with overview, parameters, states, and actions. The
configuration view is used for setup, rename, and remove flows. The API
browser exposes methods, notifications, types, enums, and references from
the generated nymea API model.
.SS Global Keys
.TP
.B q
Quit the application.
.TP
.B Esc
Quit the application, close the help screen, or close the active dialog,
depending on the current context.
.TP
.B h, ?
Open the help screen.
.TP
.B c
Reconnect to the current server.
.TP
.B t
Refresh things from the server.
.TP
.B Up / Down
Move the selection in the focused list.
.TP
.B Left / Right
Switch panels or move between subviews.
.TP
.B Enter
Activate the selected item.
.TP
.B Space
Toggle the thing inspector when supported by the active view.
.SS Things View
.TP
.B s
Cycle the thing sort mode.
.TP
.B f
Cycle the thing category filter.
.TP
.B Left / Right
Switch between search, thing list, and details.
.TP
.B Space
Open or close the inspector for the selected parameter, state, or action.
.TP
.B Enter
Open the selected action or follow the selected setup flow.
.SS Configure Things
.TP
.B Up / Down
Move between menu entries or list rows.
.TP
.B Enter
Open the selected setup, rename, or remove flow.
.TP
.B Typing
Filter available thing classes in search fields.
.SS Settings
.TP
.B Up / Down
Select server info, time zone, update, shutdown, restart, or reboot.
.TP
.B Right, Enter
Open the details pane or apply the selected action, depending on the
current row.
.TP
.B Typing
Filter time zones in the time zone view.
.SS API Browser
.TP
.B Typing
Filter methods, notifications, types, and enums.
.TP
.B Backspace
Remove the last filter character.
.TP
.B Left
Go back in API browser history.
.TP
.B Right
Move between search, list, and references panes.
.TP
.B Enter
Follow the selected referenced type.
.SS Dialogs
.TP
.B Action dialog
Use Up / Down to choose a parameter. Use Left / Right or Space for
boolean and allowed-values selectors. Press Enter to execute or Esc to
close.
.TP
.B Login dialog
Press Enter to submit credentials. Esc quits the application.
.TP
.B Confirmation dialogs
Press Enter to confirm and Esc to cancel.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/lib/nymea/nymea-cli.conf
Settings file used when running as root.
.TP
.I ~/.config/nymea/nymea-cli.conf
Settings file used for non-root users.
.PP
Saved connections are keyed by nymea host UUID. Each entry stores the
display name, host, port, SSL flag, authentication token, and TLS
fingerprint.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Connect to a local nymea instance using the default plain TCP port:
.IP
.EX
nymea-cli
.EE
.TP
Connect to a remote host with TLS and the default TLS port:
.IP
.EX
nymea-cli --ssl --host nymea.example.org
.EE
.TP
Use a custom timeout and explicit TCP port:
.IP
.EX
nymea-cli --host 192.0.2.10 --port 2224 --timeout 10000
.EE
.TP
Authenticate with explicit credentials:
.IP
.EX
nymea-cli --host 192.0.2.10 --username admin --password secret
.EE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Invalid command line arguments or application failure.
.SH SECURITY
Passing a password on the command line can expose it to other local users
through process listings or shell history. Prefer interactive
authentication when possible.
.PP
When a stored TLS fingerprint changes,
.B nymea-cli
shows a warning before continuing to use the connection.
.SH LICENSE
This project is licensed under
.BR GPL-3.0-or-later .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nymead (8)
